.. _xcb:

===
XCB
===

This document covers some basics of XCB. This contains strengths and
weaknesses and other aspects worth mentioning when trying to decide
between it and Xlib.

All information was pulled from `the XCB
tutorial <https://xcb.freedesktop.org/tutorial/>`__.

What is XCB
-----------

It is a alternative to the X-server interface Xlib. Both offer the
ability to communicate with a systems x-server, which is a crucially
important aspect of a window manager.

XCB eliminates the need for programs to implement the X protocol layer
by offering low-level access to X-servers. Since the protocol is
standardized, it is possible to talk to any X-server with XCB.

What does XCB provide over Xlib
-------------------------------

-  Toolkit implementation
-  Direct protocol programming (see section *Why not to use XCB*)
-  Leightweight emulation of commonly used portions of the Xlib API
-  XCB does not lock itself while waiting for a response it send to a
   x-server instance like Xlib. This avoids needless stalling while a
   request is processed. Instead, XCB binds a cookie to a request which
   can then be used to ask for a pointer to the corresponding reply.
   This not only enables reading of the reply only when it is required,
   but also is ~5 times faster then locking while waiting for a reply.

Latency comparison
------------------

-  Request: ``W``
-  Reply: ``R``
-  No action: ``-``
-  Amount of send requests: ``N``

Xlib
~~~~

Due to how Xlib works, a request-reply cycle works like this:

::

   W-----RW-----RW-----RW-----R

The total time is ``N * (T_write + T_round_trip + T_read)``.

.. _xcb-1:

XCB
~~~

XCBs request-reply cycle looks like this:

::

   WWWW--RRRR

The total time is
``N * T_write + max(0, T_round_trip - (N-1) * T_write) + N * T_read``.

Conclusion
~~~~~~~~~~

XCB offers considerably faster event handling. The tutorial linked at the
top of this document also proiveds the source code and results of a
benchmarking which leads to the same results.

Why to not use Xlib
-------------------

**Xlib is quite big:** Xlib is bigger then XCB and can therefore not be
used with minimalistic systems. However, the target groups of this
project are (semi-)well equiped computers, which makes this not as much
of an advantage.

**Latency:** Xlib manages events synchronously, with the principle of
*first in, first out (fifo)*. This can cause delays when dealing with a
bigger amount of events within a short notice.

**Multithreading:** XCB appears to support this feature. Xlib can to
some degree work with multiple threads too but its API was not designed
for this purpose which makes it difficult to work with as well as
error-prone.

Why not to use XCB
------------------

**Direct protocol access:** This can be good or not depending on the
system an application will run on. Xlib performs chaching, layering and
other optimizations by itself. XCB does not provide this feature.

Summary
-------

XCB seems to be a lighter version of Xlib that also solves issues like
multithreading while losing some optimizations such as caching in the
process. However, XCB offers a considerably quicker request-reply
method, which also allows reading of replies when necessary and does not
force an aplication to do so when the response becomes available.
