docs/source/032_flowcharts.rst, before:

.. _flowcharts:

==========
Flowcharts
==========
The following flowcharts show the technical structure and sequence of the product.

Main event loop
---------------

.. figure:: ../../planning/diagrams/maineventloop.png
    :align: center
    :width: 60%

    main event loop


Instantiation
-------------

.. figure:: ../../planning/diagrams/flowchart_instantiation.png
    :align: center
    :width: 80%

    instantiation


Eventhandling
-------------
.. figure:: ../../planning/diagrams/flowchart_eventhandling.png
    :align: center
    :width: 80%
    
    eventhandling


Communication window manager and statusbar
------------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../../planning/diagrams/flowchart_ipc_com_statusbar.png
    :align: center
    :width: 80%

    window manager and statusbar communicating


Register keybinds
-----------------

.. figure:: ../../planning/diagrams/flowchart_register_keybinds.png
    :align: center
    :width: 80%

    register keybinds


Getting associated keybind when key pressed
-------------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../../planning/diagrams/flowchart_keybinding_pressed.png
    :align: center
    :width: 80%

    associated keybind for pressed key

Commit message:

implemented class diagrams and hints

docs/source/032_flowcharts.rst, after:

.. _flowcharts:

==========
Flowcharts
==========
The following flowcharts show the technical structure and sequence of the product.

.. hint::
    If the diagrams are not shown big enough to read, please click on them.

Main event loop
---------------

.. figure:: ../../planning/diagrams/maineventloop.png
    :align: center
    :width: 60%

    main event loop


Instantiation
-------------

.. figure:: ../../planning/diagrams/flowchart_instantiation.png
    :align: center
    :width: 80%

    instantiation


Eventhandling
-------------
.. figure:: ../../planning/diagrams/flowchart_eventhandling.png
    :align: center
    :width: 80%
    
    eventhandling


Communication window manager and statusbar
------------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../../planning/diagrams/flowchart_ipc_com_statusbar.png
    :align: center
    :width: 80%

    window manager and statusbar communicating


Register keybinds
-----------------

.. figure:: ../../planning/diagrams/flowchart_register_keybinds.png
    :align: center
    :width: 80%

    register keybinds


Getting associated keybind when key pressed
-------------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../../planning/diagrams/flowchart_keybinding_pressed.png
    :align: center
    :width: 80%

    associated keybind for pressed key
