docs/source/033_class_diagrams_generated/windowmanager/index.rst, before:

.. _docs_source_033_class_diagrams_generated_windowmanager:

========================================================
windowmanager
========================================================



All shown class diagrams are **automatically generated**.

.. toctree::
        :maxdepth: 3

        screeninfo/index
        eventhandler/index
        workspace/index
        windowmanager/index
        config/index
        setup/index


keybindings.png
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../../../../planning/diagrams/classdg_generated/windowmanager/keybindings.png
    :align: center
    :width: 63%

    keybindings.png

windowstate.png
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../../../../planning/diagrams/classdg_generated/windowmanager/windowstate.png
    :align: center
    :width: 52%

    windowstate.png

ipc.png
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../../../../planning/diagrams/classdg_generated/windowmanager/ipc.png
    :align: center
    :width: 59%

    ipc.png

main.png
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../../../../planning/diagrams/classdg_generated/windowmanager/main.png
    :align: center
    :width: 65%

    main.png

auxiliary.png
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../../../../planning/diagrams/classdg_generated/windowmanager/auxiliary.png
    :align: center
    :width: 255%

    auxiliary.png

Commit message:

insert hint on diagram pages

docs/source/033_class_diagrams_generated/windowmanager/index.rst, after:

.. _docs_source_033_class_diagrams_generated_windowmanager:

========================================================
windowmanager
========================================================



All shown class diagrams are **automatically generated**.

.. toctree::
        :maxdepth: 3

        screeninfo/index
        eventhandler/index
        workspace/index
        windowmanager/index
        config/index
        setup/index

.. hint:: If the diagrams are not shown big enough to read, please click on them.

keybindings.png
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../../../../planning/diagrams/classdg_generated/windowmanager/keybindings.png
    :align: center
    :width: 63%

    keybindings.png

windowstate.png
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../../../../planning/diagrams/classdg_generated/windowmanager/windowstate.png
    :align: center
    :width: 52%

    windowstate.png

ipc.png
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../../../../planning/diagrams/classdg_generated/windowmanager/ipc.png
    :align: center
    :width: 59%

    ipc.png

main.png
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../../../../planning/diagrams/classdg_generated/windowmanager/main.png
    :align: center
    :width: 65%

    main.png

auxiliary.png
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../../../../planning/diagrams/classdg_generated/windowmanager/auxiliary.png
    :align: center
    :width: 255%

    auxiliary.png
